---
layout: post
title: "The What If Series---Disappearing Elements"
---
### Iron
Iron is one of the most important elements on earth. It plays a vital role in the development of the civilization, and it is also important for the transportation of oxygen for most organism.

The changing gravity on earth. 

Iron composes approximately 35% of the total mass of the earth, and removing iron will make the earth lighter, and the gravity will be smaller (We have to hypothesize that the size, the formation and the orbit of the earth remain unchanged, or the earth will be no longer livable for carbon-based life.), approximately 65% when comparing to modern earth.

Surprisingly, nothing will change besides the gravity. The length of a day or a year doesn’t change much. Still, a smaller gravity will lead to various changes among plants, animals and our civilization, which we are going to discuss about them later. 

The collapsing ecosystem. 
I would better describe the ecosystem using “reforming” or “changing” instead of the word “collapsing”, that the ecosystem would be greatly changed but not destroyed. Most vertebrates transport oxygen through their body, and if iron disappears, organisms have to develop another system during the evolution to survive. A perfect substitute for iron is copper, that cuprous ions are available in carrying oxygen. The nature provided us with the perfect example: octopus and snails are powered by copper. They have transparent venous blood and blue arterial blood, and if their blood is exposed in the air, it would turn blue in seconds. Therefore, human will look alike the creatures in the film Avatar, having blue skins, blue eyes and blue bodies. 

The only difference which is likely to change the society is that copper blood is not capable of heat, and it will be hard for people to live around the equator before the invention of air conditioner, and the equator will be covered by plants and inferior organisms like insects.

Another difference among plants and animals is that they will be larger. A lower gravity means that without changing the structures of the xylem of trees or the bones of animals, they could support more mass. Still, this also will not affect the world too much since if everything is scaled up to equal proportions, their relationship is not likely to change. 

The difference in civilization.
There were differences between eastern and western civilization, and we have to discuss them separately. What’s more, to understand the change, we have to know about the metal activity sequence. This sequence determines the sequence that human utilize different elements.

Eastern civilization

Iron was the second element to be applied to mass production, in around 500BC. Chinese people gave up the heavy and relatively undurable bronze and began to apply iron into agriculture (cultivation) and wars (weapons). This greatly improved the productivity, providing excessive supplies for people to fight, and potentially speed up the Warring State in China.

However, there was only little record for Chinese people to utilize elements more active than iron. People utilized steel, mingling carbon in iron, but iron is also needed to manufacture steel. Therefore, if removing iron from the universe, Chinese people were likely to live in the bronze age until 1840, when the western civilization invaded their country and at the same time, brought the technologies in using other metallic elements. 

Thus, China would, unsurprisingly, remain in the Bronze Age. It is difficult to estimate how more efficient is iron than bronze, but we could discuss the change in agriculture, and war based on the discussion.

Agriculture and Food: 

Bronze tools were not durable and efficient when comparing to the iron counterparts, therefore they could only feed a limited population. Farmers had to frequently replace their tools to cultivate crops, and since bronze is slightly heavier than iron, it was more tiring and this would further limit the efficiency of cultivation. Copper reserves were relatively small compared to iron, but given the lower temperature requirements for copper smelting, there may not be a significant cost difference between the two. 

Based on the previous discussion, the population and proficiency of Eastern civilization before 1840 (especially for China) would be limited to that in the end of Xizhou (a period in Chinese history when Zhou lost its ability to control its barons), when iron was not applied to agriculture and war. Although the southern part of the country would no longer be suitable for people to grow crops, the center of economy was still in the northern part of the country, and therefore would not affect the accuracy of the estimation. 

The population of Xizhou was about 20 million, but considering the absent of iron, the would be some uncultured land, the population would still experience a smooth growth and finally settled at about 30 million people. Most of the population would settle in the north of Yangtze River since copper blood made people maladjust the hot weather in the south. 

People’s eating habits also changed with the change of their resident: rice cultivation would no longer be a reasonable option because of the reduction in the amount of arable land and the lack of adaptation to hot weather. Wheaten food including bread and mantou (traditional Chinese paste made from wheat) would be the most popular dish among Chinese people. 

War (and probably politic):

The disappearing iron would directly shape the pattern of war and eventually changed the development of history. War was a very time-consuming event in times of low productivity. Wars between countries usually lasted for as long as a hundred years, as can be seen through the wars of the Spring and Autumn Period and Warring State periods. Hundreds of bannermen fought for about five hundred years before they were finally reunited and continued the course of history. Therefore, it was reasonable to assume that the change of dynasties would also be more time consuming (300 years on average), and this would apparently lag the history of the country behind. 

China would be divided for an additional 1000 years (the end of the Qin dynasty would take an additional 200 years, the Three Kingdoms period an additional 200 years, the Northern and Southern dynasties an additional 300 years, and the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period an additional 300 years). We could therefore hypothesized that around the time of the Song Dynasty, that the first Opium War would break out, opening China towards the whole world. 

The Song dynasty was open to new foreign technologies, as well as the smelting of aluminum (which I’ll mention later). There was no doubt that China will become a capitalist, monarchy country, just like Spanish or Britain in the 20th and 21st century.

Western Civilization

It is easier to speculate what’s happening on western history with the absent of iron. The lack of iron did not affect European civilization much, as a significant part of the Western economy was not supported by farming. Trade and colonization supported the population of Europe to a considerable extent. Therefore, Europe’s productivity up to the Renaissance would not have changed much, and a reasonable estimation of population among Europe before the first industrial revolution was about 50 million to 60 million.

I would describe a world without iron as a world built up by aluminum, magnesium and titanium. With the absent of iron, the center of the industrial revolution would also change. People would build furnaces on a large scale, except that these furnaces would be used to melt metals like copper, aluminum, and magnesium instead of iron. I’m sure this wasn’t terribly difficult for 18th century humans. Still, steam engines would be polularized, changing the way people travelled; in addition, more changes would revolve around aluminum. With only a little bit more active than iron, people would try to separate them with technologies from the industrial revolution. 

Technology developed, except that everything that should have been iron was replaced by aluminum or its alloys. The widespread use of aluminum may even benefit our civilization: oxidation of aluminum results in the formation of a dense aluminum trioxide surface, which prevents further oxidation of the aluminum. This also undoubtedly increases the durability of aluminum products. Only that they will darken over time.

But in any case, an aluminum boat still sounds strange; after all, aluminum is not as strong as iron alloys.

### Gold
Gold was the first metal recognized by human, as it is one of the least active elements of metals. It doesn’t even react with oxygen in air. You must have heard of oxidized iron, oxidized copper, and even oxidized silver, but you must not have heard of oxidized gold. Therefore, humans could utilize this metal directly without smelting.

Although our ancestors got access to gold as early as they were still in caves, they did not try to utilize this metal. Gold is rare and has a very low hardness. It has a Mohs hardness of only 2.5, just a little higher than graphite, and is not suitable for use as a tool. As a result, gold quickly evolved into a symbol of power and wealth. As early as around the fourth millennium B.C., humans began to use gold as a decorative item. Subsequently, thanks to its rarity, gold (especially in the European region) was recognized as currency and was used until the 1930s.

In 1932, the United States unilaterally terminated the convertibility of the U.S. dollar into gold, marking the end of the history of gold as money. Today, gold still exists in our lives more as a luxury. Gold has also become a stock whose value fluctuates over time like any other stock.

I used to think seriously about what it would be like if gold never existed on earth. It is true that gold has some applications in industry because of its excellent electrical conductivity and resistance to corrosion, but I realized that all of these seems broing. Whether as a carrier of money, or as an anti-corrosive agent, gold is not irreplaceable. One can always choose another metal (in the case of currency, silver is an alternative) as a substitute. Therefore, at least it’s a bit boring to assume that gold never existed.

After all, we’re going to make some interesting assumptions: let’s assume that all the gold disappears into thin air in the next second. 

Although the gold standard no longer exists, the disappearance of gold would still have a significant impact on our life. Let’s follow the timeline to see what will happen if gold disappear. 

1 second

Nothing happens. No one notices anything. There are some people with gold jewelries who might feel something leave them, but they must have missed the change. Please don’t ask me for specific details. I have never lost my jewelries because I have never had them. 

1 minute

The first people who notice the anomaly are the clerks in the jewelry store. They will notice that all their gold jewelries disappear. They will call the police, and in a short period of time, the police offices around the world will remain occupied or even paralyzed. At the same time, some visitors may also notice that all the gold exhibits in the museum have disappeared, but they may perceive it as regular maintenance of the artifacts. When I travelled to Spain, I noticed that the roofs of their palaces were made of tons of gold. I was actually looking forward to what would happen when all that gold disappeared.

10 minute

The widespread disappearance of gold has drawn the attention of the politicians. They would check the country’s gold reserves and realize that all the gold had disappeared. At the same time, some people will find that their electronic devices have stopped working. This is because their devices contain gold. Even so, most of the devices are able to function normally, because there is very little gold in them. For example, Iphone XS contains only about 0.018g of gold.

1 hour

The medias begin to report on the widespread disappearance of gold. People question whether the gold has all disappeared, and the price of gold began to fall rapidly in the stock market. A portion of investors as well as families will suffer incalculable losses.

3 hour

Reluctantly, most governments tell the public that gold has all disappeared. The currency of large countries, such as the United States, will not be affected very much, but the currencies of some of the countries that are still secured by gold will be devalued rapidly. Governments will have to start looking for metals that are as valuable as gold.

1 day

There are a number of countries that begin to develop silver mines on a large scale. Thanks to their scarce reserves, metals such as ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium and platinum will also become more popular. Many electronic devices gradually stop working. People have to spend a few weeks without navigation and signals. The government will provide free wifi coverage in densely populated areas for people. The tech giants will quickly invest in the research and development of electronic devices to find an alternative for gold.

1 week

Because of the disappearance of gold, there are those who will commit suicide because of unsustainable loss, but most will get used to it. Jewelries made of other materials may reappear in luxury stores, but most people will not buy them because they fear that other metals may disappear as well. 

1 month

China, the U.S., and some European countries begin to relaunch satellites. Cell phone signals begin to return. Some countries start using the US dollar as their financial systems collapsed. Apple, Intel and other tech companies release brand new tech products and highly recommend consumers to buy them, claiming that old electronic devices will become unstable as the gold disappears.

6 month

People have gradually adapted to life without gold. Silver replaces gold and re-entered the stock market as precious metal. However, not many people are willing to purchase silver and jewelry in large quantities because they fear that silver would disappear one day as well. Most countries also got over the crisis and started using their own currencies again.

1 year

The disappearance of gold has passed. Most people have forgotten that this element hasever existed.

### Copper
Copper is known to be essential to all living organisms as it is a key component of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome C oxidase. Without copper, respiration would not occur and therefore life would not exist. Thus, there is no need for me to write about the passage.

Ok. It’s only a joke. Let’s just trust life for a moment and believe that they will find a way out for themselves and drive respiration in some other way. Let’s look elsewhere for the impact of copper on humans.

The earth

Actually, the disappearance of copper would not have a significant impact on our planet, that it only makes up 0.01% of the total mass of the planet. The disappearance of copper will not have any effect on the Earth. The ecosystem and the gravity will remain unchanged. Copper would also have no effect on the Sun because it is only found in supermassive stars, and the Sun, of course, is too small to support the formation of the element. 

The history.

After carefully thinking about it, I believe that the effects of copper on history needs to be considered in two segments: before the 19th century and after the 19th century.

Before the 19th century

The disappearance of copper would have no significant effect on history before the 19th century, as the use of bronze was quickly replaced by iron. Thus, the disappearance of copper might even allow people to start using iron earlier. However, the use of iron would not be ahead of schedule too much because making iron requires a very high temperature. For quite a long period of time, humans would probably live in a life similar to that of the Neolithic Age.

Humans would then move quickly into the Iron Age and stayed in it until the second industrial revolution. However, it’s definitely a petty that, as a history lover, I’d like to say that many copper artifacts would no longer exist (iron, by comparison, is unlikely to be preserved for thousands of years without damage).

After the 19th century

The second industrial revolution was in the 19th century, and it was this revolution that led to the development and popularization of electricity. Copper, in our world, is widely used in our livelihood as a metal with excellent electrical conductivity and a relatively low price. Copper is undoubtedly irreplaceable. Although gold and silver also have excellent electrical conductivity, their scarcity and prices make copper destined irreplicable. The disappearance of copper has left mankind with the choice of aluminum as a material for electrical wiring, and this will undoubtedly increase the cost of electricity. To make this difference more tangible, let’s quantify the difference between the metals using resistivity.

The resistivity of copper is 1.75 ×10-8ρ(Ω·m). In contrast, the resistivity of silver, gold and aluminum is 1.65ρ(Ω·m), 2.40ρ(Ω·m) and 2.83ρ(Ω·m), respectively. By calculating the electrical power produced by the two metals, it can be easily estimated that, under the same conditions, transporting electricity using aluminum wires will result in 60% more losses than using identical copper wires.

Climate

Let’s make an estimation: according to the International Energy Agency (IEA), global electricity consumption in 2022 will be around 27,000 terawatt hours (TWh). If 60% of the energy contained in that electricity is converted into heat and absorbs by the atmosphere, the temperature of the atmosphere would rise by about 11.3 degrees Celsius.

Of course, this estimate is not accurate. In fact, most of the heat is absorbed by the Earth or escapes into the universe. The Earth’s temperature wouldn’t rise that much (of course, we will all die if the average temperature rises 11.3 degrees Celsius). Nonetheless, considering that humans might generate more electricity to make up for the wasted electricity, the resulting CO2 could be fatal to the Earth’s temperature. Therefore, taking all these considerations into account, an average temperature rises of 3 degrees Celsius is reasonable. This rise in temperature will not be fatal to human, except that some animals will go extinct, the Arctic ice cap will disappear, and rising sea levels will flood coastal cities like Shanghai and New York. The population won’t decrease in a large extent, and people aren’t going to live underground to combat the heat.

Daily life

People’s lives are not going to be disrupted too much. The price of electricity will be doubled due to the increasing loss in transforming electricity, but that won’t matter in most cases. Of course, people won’t choose to use candles or torches to light up their neighborhoods, but still, there are some places where will be affected: hydrogen production through electrolyzing water will no longer be acceptable; anti-seasonal fruits and vegetables will no longer be viable (which means that winter fruits and vegetables will be very expensive); remote areas will not have improved internet, cell phone reception, lighting, and a host of other infrastructure. 

The coins will also change a lot. Currently, the coins of most countries are copper-nickel alloys. This could control the price and the durability of the currency in an acceptable area. However, if there is no copper available, the government will have to choose Stannum or Iron as materials. Since Stannum is not durable enough and iron will be easily oxided by the atmosphere, the cost to produce coins will no longer be acceptable since the government have to frequently replace them with new ones. The world may not have any coins as a result. Paper money or electronic payments will become more popular among the citizens.

Thanks to its excellent thermal and electrical conductivity, copper is being used on a large scale in green technology. In addition to the electrolysis of water to produce hydrogen mentioned above, copper is also used in wind power, hydroelectric power and even nuclear power. Without copper, one might have to use silver or even gold to utilize those green energy. This would make green technology more expensive, and thus much less popular.

Electronic devices will become more expensive that they will contain more silver. Of course, there is also the possibility that silver will become cheaper (which will result in an even smaller effect of the world). This is because sophisticated electronic devices require a low resistance working environment, and aluminum could not meet the need. However, given the popularity of the Internet, people will also have to buy cell phones & computers no matter how expensive they are. 

A world without copper would still exist, but much less interesting than our current world. Electronic devices will not be as popular as the modern society, and people will rely more on traditional technologies (technologies before the informational technology revolution, for example, fossil fuels). Still, modern technology will still exist, but they will only be used by rich people. It is reasonable that not everyone could afford silver for their devices.

### Uranium
Uranium is the first radioactive element discovered by human. When mentioning the element, you may think about nuclear weapon, the cold war, and risking millions of innocent lives on the edge of extinction. However, this is only a very tiny little corner about Uranium. In fact, it is the most impressive and mysterious element in the universe, and is supporting our planet in an unexpected way. 

Radioactive elements

It is well known that radioactive elements with higher atomic numbers gradually decay into elements with lower atomic numbers until the decay products are no longer radioactive. The effect of the disappearance of uranium on this process is unknown, but it is assumed that these elements will simply skip uranium and move on to the next stage, releasing more energy (this is the assumption with the least impact on the Earth). Of course, they might also just stay in the pre-uranium stage and remain stable. This might allow a very large number of man-made elements to become natural elements, and therefore make the components of the planet versatile. Though this wouldn’t have any huge impact on our planet either. It may affect the supernovas, but as they are all far away from the earth, let’s simply ignore this either.

The development of Earth. 

Uranium is one of the few naturally occurring radioactive elements. It is widely distributed in the Earth’s crust. In fact, since 4.5 billion years ago, the decay of uranium has been providing heat to the Earth. At that time, uranium, along with other radioactive elements, was one of the main constituents of the Earth. Time elapsed, and the Earth cooled and these elements decayed, that the Earth became more suitable for life. The heat and energy released by Uranium support the relatively high temperature of the earth’s mantle, and at the same time, lifes on the planet. 

So how do the disappearing Uranium affect the earth?

There would be a drop in the Earth’s temperature of about 10 degrees Celsius, as the Earth’s internal heat source would be partially removed. 

Agriculture

The tropical regions of the planet would disappear completely: deserts, rainforests, and the savanna prairie would be eliminated, accompanied with tropical plants and animals. This will strongly affect agriculture. Fruits unique to the tropics, such as coconuts and durians, will also cease to exist, or will only exist in greenhouses. Rice will not disappear completely, but areas suitable for rice cultivation will be too small to support the global population. Therefore, wheat will replace rice as the main food crop. As a result, pasta such as bread will become more popular among people. 

For areas further north or south, people aren’t able to feed themselves very well as the temperature drops. Crops like potatoes, corn, etc. may be grown on a large scale as food in colder areas. This could partly solve the problems of food. The drop in temperature would also cause more areas of forest to degrade into grasslands that could provide help for livestock. Therefore, the supply of protein would not be a problem either. Additionally, an unfriendly environment would stimulate people to start working on agriculture-related technologies earlier. Considering all of this, food production may not have changed much compared to today, though, people may lose some of their choices.

Population

Considering our assumption about agriculture, the world’s population may not change dramatically. More changes occur in the distribution of the population: areas at higher latitudes (e.g. Russia, Canada) will have smaller populations and will be dominated by animal husbandry or potato farming. Most of the population would be concentrated within cities in the middle and lower latitudes, such as Orlando. Crops produced at higher latitudes would feed cities in areas closer to the equator. The Central American region and Southeast Asia would also be popular, and because of the milder climate there will be more people and more developed cities.

Transportation

The decreasing temperature will affect waterway transportation. Some rivers used for transportation will remain frozen for most of the year and will no longer be suitable for ship traffic, such as the Volga River in Russia, and some rivers in China that begin on the Tibetan Plateau, such as the Yangtze River, will see a significant reduction in water flow. However, these won’t have much of an impact because the northern part of Russia is already underpopulated as the temperature is low, and the Yangtze region will use trains or trucks as alternative.

The biggest impact would be the disappearance of the Arctic Ocean shipping lanes: the Arctic Ocean would undoubtedly be frozen all year round, and ships would have no way to pass through it. Given that Russia relies on the Arctic Ocean to export its oil, gas and iron ore, it may be more difficult for them to export their natural resources, and some other European countries also rely the Arctic Ocean shipping lanes to export their products, the southern shipping lanes, including the Mediterranean Sea lanes, the Suez Canal and the Malacca Straits, will become busier.

The first industrial revolution and climate change

When considering this, the disappearance of uranium may not be entirely a bad thing (though it’s still really really bad for humans). Since the Industrial Revolution, humans have been emitting carbon dioxide into the atmosphere on a massive scale. This has exacerbated the greenhouse effect. However, if the world were free of uranium, this would not necessarily be a bad thing: the greenhouse effect would make the planet warmer and people would no longer have to deal with the climate change. As a result, human do not need to consider the consequences of development of industry and productivity. However, still we have to pay for the consequences: humans may have to sacrifice coastal cities such as Shanghai and New York, because melting glaciers will rise the sea level. 

Nuclear Technology

I’m sure many of you who clicked into this post are expecting this part, but I have some bad news: the disappearance of uranium will not actually have any effect. After all, plutonium and thorium are both great nuclear fission feedstocks, right?

Just kidding. I actually thought about the same thing before I started writing this post. However, I came to realize that no other element can perform nuclear fission without uranium. Plutonium can indeed be used to produce atomic bombs, but human produced it by bombarding Uranium-238 with neutrons; Thorium-232 itself cannot be directly involved in nuclear fission, but needs to be converted into Uranium-233 before it can be involved in nuclear fission. This means that without uranium, atomic bombs and nuclear power plants would not exist. 

Nuclear fusion would still be a viable choice because it relies primarily on isotopes of hydrogen. However, the detonation of a hydrogen bomb (uncontrolled fusion) still relies on nuclear fission. Therefore, while I believe that scientists can find a way to trigger nuclear fusion, a hydrogen bomb is not likely to be realized anytime sooner than World War II. Not to mention controlled fusion, which still hasn’t been realized in the early 21st century.

The implications for humanity are significant. I will discuss this issue from both military use and civil use of nuclear power. 

Military

Without the atomic bomb, the World War II would end in 1948, not 1945. According to U.S. military’s estimation in 1945, if the two atomic bombs had failed to get Japan to surrender, U.S. forces would have to land on Japan, which would have resulted in three years of war and about one million U.S. casualties. A prolonged war requires a lot of resources, so Japan will not give up its government in China, and the outbreak of civil war in China would be delayed. In fact, a civil war in China would not break out at all because the additional three years of war brought the Chinese Nationalists enough time to completely destroy the Chinese Communist Party. Thus, China would have been a capitalist country after the war rather than a communist one.

The world after the Second World War would not change dramatically. Although there would be no more atomic bombs, the Cold War would still exist because the hydrogen bomb would still be feasible for scientists. Without the support of the Chinese Communist Party, the Soviet Union would have lost the Cold War and disintegrated much more quickly, but as scientists would finally create hydrogen bomb, the nuclear deterrence would have still existed and would have lasted for hundreds of years (hopefully). 

Civil

The disappearance of nuclear power plants would not have a particularly large impact on the world either, except in some countries. For most countries, nuclear power plants provide only a very small amount of electricity. Therefore, they can fill the gap in electricity consumption in other ways, for example, solar energy.

But some countries are not so lucky. The United States, Japan and a number of European countries, led by the UK and France, now rely on nuclear power for around 20 per cent of their total electricity generation. The disappearance of uranium force them to look for other sources of energy. The United States can generate enough electricity by utilizing fossil fuels; the UK, France and Japan can only generate electricity by importing oil and natural gas from Russia.

Of course, that’s not a bad thing. At least the disasters at Chernobyl and Fukushima won’t happen anymore. 

It doesn’t seem like uranium is that important at all. 